[creaking]
[clicking]
[theme music playing]
WOO YOUNG-WOO
[clinks]
[whale calls]
[train rumbles]
[beeping]
[clacking]
[uneasy music playing]
SENIOR MANAGER, KIM HYEON-JEONG
MIR LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
[heels clacking]
[Yeon-hui] Mrs. Hyeon-jeong Kim.
Please come in. He's ready.
All right.
[rustles]
[deep sigh]
Hyeon-jeong, you know that our company
is going through an M&A, right?
Yes, I am aware, sir.
Mir Life Business was recently bought
by SB Life, a German insurer,
if I'm not mistaken.
And since we now have
a new owner of our company,
we have no choice but to downsize.
The policy I've been asked
to implement is the following.
"Any married couple among the workforce
can voluntarily resign."
[Jong-cheol] Why?
Because they're more stable financially.
How is it that we are more stable?
The employees who are married
have a double income.
They make a larger salary
than single-income employees.
Still, the salaries
my husband and I both earn
are much lower than one manager's salary.
Let me explain the options you have now.
"If, in a married couple,
neither the husband nor the wife resigns,
unpaid leave will then be imposed
to the husband by the company."
In other words,
if I don't submit my resignation,
then my husband will be laid off, right?
[uncomfortable exhale]
Talk it over and find out
what's best for the both of you.
And as you know, your husband's job
is more important, right?
What?
Don't make this awkward for his parents.
Making your in-laws feel terrible,
having a son at home,
while their daughter-in-law is working?
[exhales]
It's your duty. Take care of your husband.
[chuckles]
[gloomy music playing]
[Ji-yeong] Mrs. Kim.
Mrs. Kim!
What was your meeting about?
Uh…
Does your husband still work here?
He does. Wait, why?
[Yeon-hui] Mrs. Ji-yeong Lee.
Please come in. He's ready.
Oh, okay.
[phone vibrates]
HUSBAND: WE NEED TO TALK
[Hyeon-jeong] So what did he tell you?
He asked me to convince you.
To convince me to quit my job?
[sighs]
The new board wants
to get rid of their female staff.
[gasps]
[shaky breathing]
You okay?
I have worked so hard for this company.
Honey, you know that's true.
It is.
Clearly.
Right after Jeong-min was born,
remember how I only took two weeks off?
But my maternity leave was much longer.
I gave that time up
because I wanted to help the company.
I know.
Everyone in the office remembers that.
They expect me to work
instead of raising our children
to show that I am dedicated
to the company.
And now they expect me to resign
to take care of your career.
[Hyeon-jeong weeps]
He told me that your job
is more important…
[weeps]
…and that the best I can do is resign.
[gloomy music playing]
[Hyeon-jeong weeping]
CASE 12
YANGTZE RIVER DOLPHIN
[wrapper crinkles]
-[knocks on door]
-[exhales]
Come in.
[door closes]
[Seon-yeong] Look at you.
[chuckles]
Well, by the looks of it,
you pulled an all-nighter.
No, I went home in the middle
of the night and got some sleep.
Mm.
[Seon-yeong] This burger's your breakfast?
Yes. I have a client meeting soon,
so there's not enough time to eat.
May I help you with something?
Well, I, um, popped into your office
because I'm going to the hospital.
[Seon-yeong] To see Atty. Park.
I thought you might wanna join me.
But with your meeting,
that's not gonna work.
Wait, uh…
[clears throat]
What's wrong with Atty. Park?
Why is he in the hospital?
Oh, my.
I guess no one told you yet?
Jang Jae-jin paid a visit
to Atty. Park's house
last night in a fit of rage.
"Jang Jae-jin"?
Isn't he the son
of Hyeonbo Construction's chairman?
Mm, that one.
He got out of prison a few days ago.
If you remember, Jang Jae-jin
was only given a sentence of eight years
for murdering his own father.
He got that reduced sentence
because you and Atty. Park
did a great job defending him.
There's something off with Jang Jae-jin.
He came to Atty. Park's house,
brandishing a knife.
He was seeking revenge.
[Seon-yeong] Thank God
Park's family showed up in time.
Luckily, he only suffered minor injuries.
He's pretty shaken by it.
Uh, do you know
if Jang Jae-jin was caught?
Not yet. He's on the run for now.
[exhales]
Well, I'm sure Jang Jae-jin
remembers my face too.
I have already informed security.
I've placed additional guards on patrol
and they increase screening
at our entrance.
Rest assured, your safety is our priority.
Don't worry too much about it. All right?
Yes, ma'am.
-You can get back to it.
-Yes, thank you.
[door opens]
-[sighs]
-[door closes]
[elevator dings]
[clicks]
[footsteps]
[elevator doors close]
[elevator humming]
[Seon-yeong] He came to Atty. Park's
house, brandishing a knife.
He was seeking revenge.
[Myeong-seok] Do you know
if Jang Jae-jin was caught?
[Seon-yeong] Not yet.
He's on the run for now.
[tense music playing]
[elevator dings]
Hi. Hello. Hello. Hi.
-[taps]
-[startled gasp]
Oh. You're Jung Myeong-seok,
if I'm not mistaken.
[sighs]
Yeah, yes.
I am Moon Jong-cheol, Mir Life HR Manager.
If you remember, we've met before.
Uh, yes, yes, yes.
I'm… I'm sorry.
[Myeong-seok]
Let's go to the conference room.
[Jong-cheol] Oh, sure.
"If, in a married couple,
neither the husband nor the wife resigns,
unpaid leave will then be imposed
to the husband by the company."
I don't really see why this
is a discriminatory policy towards women.
It explicitly states
a penalty for the husband.
Wouldn't it discriminate men instead?
Exactly.
That's exactly what I've been saying.
The opposing counsel, they keep claiming
that our company policy
discriminates against women
and it really bothers me.
Mm…
But the truth is we live
in a patriarchal society.
If they offer only one person
in the marriage the chance to stay on,
can we turn a blind eye
to prejudice on women?
The reality is the husband
will always take priority
and continue to work.
Mm.
As a matter of fact, out of 112 couples,
98 of the wives
have already submitted their resignations.
That's my point. You said
you'd be penalizing the husbands,
but it was ultimately the wives
who voluntarily resigned, though.
[Su-yeon] And they can't
even file a complaint.
Because their husbands
are still under the thumb of the company.
Isn't this why out of 98 wives
who submitted their resignation,
only two women are taking
this case to court?
When you drafted this policy,
were those factors
taken into consideration?
[Jong-cheol] What?
Well, I mean…
The thing is that downsizing
on a large scale is always complicated
and there's no perfect way.
Mir Life did their best to find
the process that was most efficient.
That's right. Absolutely.
That's what I'm meant to say.
All right. The two employees
who are suing,
"Kim Hyeon-jeong and Lee Ji-yeong."
[sucks teeth]
Could you tell us, um,
how they were performing?
Well, uh, they were both talented.
Um, they were great employees.
Kim Hyeon-jeong was managing a team.
She was really great,
an incredibly hard worker, you know.
[Jong-cheol] On two occasions,
she was Employee of the Year.
Lee Ji-yeong was great too.
She was an assistant, among the best ones.
Mm, I see here she took
a lot of time off before resigning.
Those were doctor's appointments.
I can't remember.
[Jong-cheol] I will double-check.
The more information you can provide
about the plaintiffs, the better.
So please send us
all the documents that you have.
But it's not about
highlighting their flaws, though.
[Myeong-seok] It's just important
for us to be aware of their situation
and potential weaknesses.
Yes, I understand.
One more thing.
The attorney representing the women.
Uh, Ryu Jae-sook
is their counsel, isn't she?
And do you know of her?
[Myeong-seok] I mean,
I don't know her personally. No.
But I do know that her cases
involve, uh, human rights, women's rights,
and labor law most of the time.
[sighs]
Is she notorious for winning these cases?
Her lawsuits are known
to create some headlines in the news.
[Su-yeon] Such as "Seono's
Mistreatment of subcontractors,
Gwangil Group's
early retirement plan for women,
or Gyeongok Construction
being accused of labor violations."
The attorney seems to only take
on David versus Goliath cases,
and has a very low win rate
up to this point.
As a matter of fact, she lost
every case we just listed.
It's almost as if
she specializes in never winning.
Are you concerned about the fact
that this lawsuit
is being defended by Atty. Ryu?
Well, when she came by
the building the other day…
How do I put it? She was…
very outspoken.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Jae-sook] Attention, women!
Do not share whether or not
any of you are married!
Their strategy aims
at tricking their female workers,
forcing them to resign from their jobs.
No to gender discrimination
in Mir Life dismissals!
Equal rights!
[all in unison]
Equal rights! Equal rights!
[Jae-sook] No more pushing women
to resign! No more lay-off tactics!
Discrimination is not an option!
-Fight for your rights!
-The woman sure is loud.
-At Mir Life, we want…
-The pretrial's about to begin.
-Is she warming up for it by protesting?
-Equal rights!
[Su-yeon] I've never seen
an attorney like her.
Fight for your rights!
[all in unison] Fight for your rights!
I don't know why,
but her clients are matching
the color of the clothes she's wearing.
[Young-woo] They look like they're
on the same team with those headbands.
[all in unison]
Equal rights! Equal rights!
It's about to start. Should we get going?
Ryu Myeong-ha is known
for being a strict judge.
"Ryu Myeong-ha"?
[Jae-sook]
Discrimination is not an option!
The judge assigned to this case
is Judge Ryu? Are you positive about that?
Yes, you didn't know?
Well, think about it.
That super loud attorney,
isn't she Atty. Ryu Jae-sook?
[gasps]
Oh, is she from…
Pu… pu… Pungsan?
Do you think they're related?
[Jae-sook] Equal rights!
Mir Life's board is breaking the law!
They're just liars!
[all in unison]
They're just liars! They're just liars!
-[door opens]
-[footsteps]
CONCILIATOR
[door closes]
[Jae-sook] Hello, everyone.
PLAINTIFF
DEFENDANT
Your Honor.
When we arrived at this pretrial,
the plaintiffs and Atty. Ryu
were protesting in front
of the courthouse about this matter.
I have concerns
about your judgment being impacted
by such protest,
resulting in an unfair trial,
as you might understand.
We were protesting
Mir Life's practice of downsizing
using gender discrimination against women.
Nothing more, all right?
We never meant
to influence the court in this trial.
Uh, then why protest
outside of the courthouse,
and not at Mir Life Building instead?
Mir Life's building
is on our list for the coming days.
[Jae-sook] The reason why
we protested here today
is because we had
to come to this pretrial.
Attorney, are you saying
we need your approval
on when and where we protest?
Uh, no, that's not…
Please, Attorney.
What's your family heritage?
[suspenseful music playing]
Ah, we're from Pungsan, Your Honor.
[concerned gasp]
I told you.
[chuckles]
I'm a Pungsan Ryu as well.
And, uh, please share
your father's generational syllable.
Oh, that syllable!
[sighs]
[Jae-sook exhales sharply]
Out of curiosity, why are you asking
about my father's
and not about my syllable?
Uh, because, you know,
it is unusual to sign
any generational syllables to daughters.
Ah.
Your Honor, due to this tradition,
the Pungsan heritage
doesn't descend from the mother.
-I didn't--
-[Jae-sook] Your Honor.
This whole case is about one thing,
gender discrimination against women.
Discriminations are now strictly forbidden
by the law in South Korea.
There's the Equal Employment
Opportunity Act on that
and the Gender Equality Act.
And it is concerning to see
that our judge in this case
is as biased as you are, Your Honor.
Because of my gender,
I shouldn't have a generational syllable,
and this leads me to think you're partial.
What? Really?
"Jae" as in Ryu Jae-sook,
is the Pungsan Region's syllable
for my family's 26th generation.
While you have a "Ha"
in your name, Ryu Myeong-ha,
I guess you're part
of the 27th generation, am I correct?
Yes, I am. Yes.
Could that mean that I…
I might actually be your aunt
from Pungsan, Your Honor?
[coughs]
But, of course, you don't need
to call me "Pungsan auntie".
Don't worry about it.
[laughs]
[exhales, chuckles]
Your Honor, I'd like to go back
to Atty. Ryu and her clients
protesting at the courthouse--
We've heard you, and that's fine.
Sorry?
I don't think their protest will have
any impact on my judgment, Attorney.
[Judge Ryu]
Therefore, there should be no issue.
I appreciate it, Judge Ryu from Pungsan.
[clears throat]
"Context" is a tricky thing to understand.
So is the "connotation".
When I was in law school, Dad,
we were never asked
to figure out the context
and connotations of any words.
But I would definitely like
to know how to do that in some cases.
I can't disclose too much about this.
But today, I learned
that company policies,
due to our context
of a patriarchal society,
can actually end up
discriminating women in some way.
Young-woo, listen.
What?
Are you…
Are you dating someone?
Where is this question
coming from exactly?
Or does that have to do
with some other context I'm not aware of?
Oh, no. Not at all.
I wanna know if you are in a relationship.
[pensive hum]
Hmm…
I'm not.
[playful music playing]
Wait, you're not?
[exhales in disbelief]
I, um…
But you kissed!
[quirky music playing]
[chuckling]
I could never have imagined
that you're a Hollywood star,
American style.
We did kiss, but how
did you find out about that?
What do you mean how did I find out?
You were making out
right in front of our house!
[Gwang-ho]
You are so smart at certain things.
But then, you tell me
you're not in a relationship.
Honestly, him and I
haven't discussed this yet.
We've just started going on dates
to get to know each other
outside of work as well.
[yells]
The man's a total bastard!
He's going around smooching with you
and you're not even going steady!
[Gwang-ho sighs in disbelief]
[Gwang-ho] Who is he? Bring him home.
I need to see for myself
who this guys is, okay?
Wow.
[eerie music playing]
[ominous music playing]
[zaps]
[clacks]
[staff clicks]
[grunting]
Take this! You're fucked! All right?
[groans]
[grunting]
[heavy breathing]
[panting]
[clacks]
[Myeong-seok sighs]
[Jae-sook] "If, in a married couple,
neither the husband nor the wife resigns,
unpaid leave will then be imposed
to the husband by the company."
Could you tell us more
about the goal of this company policy?
Isn't it to get rid
of your female workers,
threatening their husbands
to lose their jobs
if they, the wives,
didn't agree to resign, correct?
That's not correct. We value women.
We have the utmost respect for women.
[Jong-cheol] Even though
Mir Life was downsizing,
our company policy
offered significant benefits
for our female workers.
"As you know, your husband's job
is more important, isn't it?
[Jae-sook] Wouldn't
your in-laws feel terrible
having a son at home
while their daughter-in-law is working.
It's your duty. Take care of your husband.
When a man loses his job,
he becomes jobless.
However, if his wife does,
she'll be a housewife.
Do you really want your husband
to be embarrassed and pathetic?"
Those were the words you said
to both of my clients
in their meetings with you.
Do you recall that?
Yes.
[Jae-sook] However, you just said
that your company highly values women,
has the utmost respect for women,
you offered benefits
for your female workers,
correct me if I'm wrong.
Yet you met with my clients
to convince them that their best interests
was to submit
their resignation letter to you.
Those were your words, sir.
And you admit to it?
[lips smack]
I only intended to give them some advice.
I expressed my personal opinion.
That is distinct from Mir Life.
Please that's almost laughable.
[button clicks]
[Myeong-seok] Your Honor, we find
this questioning to be inappropriate.
We all heard
the opposing attorney insult my client.
We'd like to ask Atty. Ryu
to remain respectful.
Moon Jong-cheol is the HR Manager
of Mir Life, Your Honor.
He met with my clients during work hours
and was representing the company.
[Jae-sook] Yet I should let him claim
that he only expressed
his personal opinion
as he said to my clients that they
should immediately resign on their own?
Oh, come on!
I don't think that was informal.
Judge Ryu Myeong-ha, what do you think?
[serious music playing]
[clears throat]
ATTORNEY RYU JAE-SOOK
[button clicks]
[Judge Ryu] Mr. Moon Jong-cheol,
were you representing Mir Life
in the meetings you held
with the two plaintiffs in this case?
Can you answer this question?
Yes, however--
Write this down.
[Judge Ryu clears throat]
Mm…
[Myeong-seok] When you found out
about that new company policy,
what was your initial reaction?
Did you find that the company
was trying to get rid
of their female workers,
threatening their husbands
to lose their jobs,
if their wives didn't agree to resign?
I didn't think that.
Otherwise, I would have resigned.
In the case of my husband and I,
he was the one
who chose to voluntarily resign.
I didn't see the company policy
as discriminating women.
It was against the men, if anyone.
And you, uh, met
with Moon Jong-cheol as well, didn't you?
Yes.
Did Moon Jong-cheol say anything to you,
uh, along the lines of,
"As you know, your husband's job
is more important, isn't it?"
I don't recall him telling me that.
It wouldn't have mattered
that much to me anyway, though.
[Yeon-hui] I do recall him telling me
that if I agreed to resign on my own,
I would get a compensation
worth 13 months of salary
and the opportunity to work
as a contractor for the company.
"The opportunity to work as a contractor"?
[Hyeon-jeong] How could you
consider this as some kind of benefit?
Why don't you see it
for what it really is,
an excuse to convert
their female staff into contractors?
[Yeon-hui] You think it's a situation
of gender discrimination.
That they force us to become contractors.
Why are people who call themselves
intelligent and independent
now claim they were forced
to make this decision?
Since that M&A,
things have become more complicated
and now with this trial?
The remaining staff
in this office is fed up, you know!
[sighs in disbelief]
[Myeong-seok] That is all, Your Honor.
Plaintiff's attorney,
you may question the witness.
Your husband has been in the hospital.
He was diagnosed with colon cancer
and had an operation?
Yes.
[Yeon-hui] But that wasn't the reason
why my husband quit his job.
Even if he didn't have that condition,
we would have, as a couple,
made the same exact decision.
Yet, before his surgery,
you were actually allowed
to take one month paid leave.
[Jae-sook] That is quite
a shocking benefit coming for a company
that is supposedly going
through difficult times
and downsizing its workforce.
And today, you are here
testifying in court.
Is that in any way related…
to that time off you got?
[tense music playing]
[indistinct muttering]
[exhales]
[Hyeon-jeong] Mrs. Choi, wait.
How did your husband's surgery go?
We're so busy with this stupid trial,
we didn't have time
to visit him in the hospital.
That's all right.
The surgery went very well.
I think we're out of the woods.
He's doing better.
Really? That's so wonderful.
Thank God. Such a great news.
Listen. I hope you don't feel bad
about this trial.
Just focus on your husband's health.
[Hyeon-jeong] We don't have
to agree on everything.
If either of us were in your position,
we would have done
the same thing, all right?
Thanks a lot.
Hey, listen. Wanna go get
some bungeoppang across the street?
They're clearly a guilty pleasure
for everyone here.
[Ji-yeong] Come on, let's have
some bungeoppang together.
I need to go now. Another time.
Hey.
Just one bungeoppang.
If we were still at the office,
the three of us,
we would be heading out
to lunch right now.
[cries]
I'm so sorry.
I feel so terrible.
Oh, please. Don't cry.
It's all right.
[all crying]
It's all right. We understand.
It's all right.
-Don't you worry.
-[weeping]
[Ji-yeong] This whole thing is ridiculous.
[women crying]
[Ji-yeong] Excuse me!
Here you go.
-Thanks, but what's that?
-[Ji-yeong] A few bungeoppangs.
We just got some from that stand
across the street
and got some for you as well.
Oh, well, thank you so much.
[Ji-yeong] Sure. Have a good day.
[clinks]
They're buying sweets
for the opposing attorneys?
[Min-woo] They don't seem worried at all.
Do they think they're winning so far?
As they should. They scored some points.
[Myeong-seok] Let's go.
Jun-ho, one thing.
Could you do some research
on the two plaintiffs?
-Look into them?
-Mm.
I'm wondering if there's anything
we could find out about them
to prove that they quit on their own.
[Myeong-seok] I mean, uh, they probably
didn't even want to leave, but, uh,
just look into why
they accepted in the end,
and what convinced them
to resign, all right, Jun-ho?
Yes, sir. No problem.
[rattling music playing]
Oh!
[Young-woo] A cab.
Jun-ho, wait.
I want to see the ad that's on the cab.
Huh? Which cab?
[gasps]
Look at the logo that's on that cab.
It's exactly the same logo
as the one Mrs. Lee Ji-yeong
has on her key chain.
Can I just take a closer look at it?
What do you mean
"take a closer look at it"?
Yeah, why?
Another one of your obsessions--
Are everyone's seatbelts buckled?
[tires screech]
[all screaming]
[all shrieking]
[engine roars]
-[screeches]
-Whoa!
[Su-yeon] Young-woo.
[Jun-ho] Atty. Woo, can you see it now?
HUIMANG WOMEN'S HOSPITAL
THE START OF A NEW LIFE AT HUIMANG
[Young-woo] "Fertility treatments."
"Huimang Hospital"?
[wind blows]
[squeaking]
[loud splash]
[machine whirring]
[Su-mi] You work with Atty. Woo, right?
Do you have what it takes?
Can you make Hanbada
too much for Atty. Woo?
What?
It doesn't matter
if she personally quits or resigns.
[serious music playing]
LEGAL CONSULTATION STATEMENT
-[knocks on door]
-[door opens]
You busy?
Yeah.
I'm still working.
[Min-woo blows air]
The grind never stops, huh?
Is it okay if I sit?
Oh, I wanna get one of these.
Listen.
[exhales]
Atty. Woo, tell me…
Do you like working for a big firm?
What?
It's just…
that sometimes,
it's tough, you know.
Because at a top law firm,
we can end up working for the wrong people
and against the weakest.
That does happen sometimes, right?
Simply because those who can afford
our firm's commission
are powerful people, right?
That's how it is.
[Min-woo sighs]
Do you have any idea…
who came up with Mir Life's HR policy
for them to downsize?
No.
We did.
Hmm? Um…
What?
Hanbada wrote it.
I just read Hanbada's consulting reports
sent to Mir Life last year,
and here's what our firm wrote.
"In the official statement,
it's important to penalize the husband
in order to be on the safe side.
The company should push employees
to resign on their own,
offering them a decent
compensation as an incentive
and hiring them later on as contractors
only if they agreed to resign."
You see, Hanbada told Mir Life
how to fool everyone.
[gasps]
So Mir… Mir Life was determined.
All they wanted was to get rid
of their female employees?
-[Min-woo] That's right.
-[gasps]
That M&A was the perfect pretext
to lay off 100 women
and make them work as contractors.
And they asked a top law firm
to design a policy
that could not be held up in court.
That's gender discrimination.
But done in a very smart way.
I wish those three women could prove it,
but they just can't.
Atty. Ryu was interviewed on TV.
Did you see that?
Have you seen where she works?
Her office looks like
some kind of corner store or something.
How could she carry out
a proper investigation
or hire someone?
A Jun-ho who could help
dig into this issue.
Her circumstances can't afford it.
-It's kind of sad.
-[uncomfortable moan]
[tongue clicks]
All right, enough depressing thoughts.
I'll get going.
Uh…
This is the, uh, consulting report
with everything I just told you about.
Maybe you would like to read it.
[Min-woo] No rush.
LEGAL CONSULTATION STATEMENT
"Two, Mir Life Insurance Company
from Hanbada Law Firm.
Subject HR--" Hmm?
[softly]
I didn't… I didn't mean that, uh…
you should read it out loud.
Maybe you should read it quietly alone.
[door opens]
"Subject, HR Policy
Toward Married Employees as part of the…"
[clears throat]
What's this, huh?
[Young-woo]
This is the legal consulting report
that Hanbada sent to Mir Life.
Are you aware of the suggestions
this report included about the HR Policy?
Yes, I am, of course.
[exhales]
How on earth
did you even come across this?
So Hanbada found a way for Mir Life
to get rid of their female workforce.
Do you confirm that?
So they carried out
a smart gender discrimination
that doesn't break the law,
and you helped them?
Hang on. Let's not paint this
in such a negative light, okay?
All we did, as attorneys,
was provide our client
with the appropriate legal advice,
so that they could achieve
their goals without legal issues.
You realize that if we win this trial,
our advice will result in helping
lay off women rather than men.
And also,
Lee Ji-yeong's fertility treatment
being held against her to prove our case
is a shameful maneuver.
Seeing that woman's hospital logo
and the dolphin jumping high
right in that instant was bad timing.
I'm sorry, Atty. Woo,
a dolphin did what now?
Mir Life is our client.
There's nothing we can do about that.
Can we at least keep quiet
about Mrs. Lee's condition
and fertility treatment?
As attorneys, we can't change the world
and make it a perfect Utopia, but we--
Wait, wait, wait, what do you mean?
Whoever said that attorneys
were responsible for a Utopian society?
Who told you that?
-Sorry?
-Bottom line, we protect.
Our clients need us
to protect their rights.
Our job is to do our best
and try to avoid
any potential loss for our clients.
And they hire our legal expertise
because that's what they need.
They don't expect us
to make the world a better place.
And guess whose job it is
to actually make the world
a better place to live.
Judges are in a position
to do exactly that, don't you think?
"The mission
of an attorney-at-law in Korea
shall be to defend
fundamental human rights
and seek social justice."
That's Paragraph 1, Article 1
of the Attorney-at--
Right! And so what?
Our current mission
is to defend our client, Mir Life, right?
And social justice, right or wrong,
that part belongs to the judge!
It's not up to you or me!
These ideals are not our job!
You sound…
Wait, are you getting upset?
[high-pitched]
I'm not getting upset at all!
[hums]
Your eyebrows are still straight.
Your cheekbones are slightly raised.
And your nostrils
are like moving a little too.
These are clear
and proven signs that occur
when a person suddenly gets upset.
[clears throat]
Enough of that.
[deep inhale]
I'm asking you
to research those fertility issues,
and question Lee Ji-yeong
about them, all right?
Atty. Woo, if you don't,
I'll have to take care of them myself.
[exhales]
DOLPHINS BELONG IN THE WIDE OCEAN,
NOT AN AQUARIUM
[kid 1] Wow, a dolphin!
[Jun-ho] Hello.
-[kid 2] Oh, this dolphin is so cute.
-[mom] All right, come on, kiddos.
[both kids] Okay.
STOP DISPLAYING DOLPHINS
AND RELEASE THEM
There's another protest.
It's happening
at Mir Life headquarters right now,
but I'm ignoring it.
Here I am, protesting against aquariums
that are mistreating
and being so cruel with dolphins.
I don't know.
Maybe I should be at the other protest.
Well, you're here for the dolphins.
But not as an attorney right now.
You and I are, um…
[deep inhale]
…on a date, actually.
[chuckles]
What do you think I'm supposed
to be doing as an attorney?
Do I follow Atty. Jung's point of view,
trust the judges to determine
what's right and what's wrong
and keep my focus
on protecting the client?
Hmm…
At Hanbada, I've heard that a lot.
Those questions come up regularly
because they're about
our own moral values.
Beginner attorneys, junior attorneys,
senior attorneys, they all have doubts.
-Do they really?
-[Jun-ho] They do!
Some attorneys such as Atty. Jung
have profound convictions
that help them answer these questions
and others who constantly try
to reflect and form their opinion.
And attorneys can't take it.
They quit the firm because they disagree.
Is that because Hanbada
is one of the top law firms?
However, on the other hand,
the top law firms are the ones
that handle the largest number
of pro bono cases.
So, for example, in Korea,
Hanbada and Taesan
must be number one in pro bono work.
That's confusing.
Now I know even less
what to think because of you.
It takes time to make up your mind
on these questions.
Relax, don't rush.
Eventually, you'll find answers.
But whatever type of attorney you are,
I'll always root for you.
[camera shutter clicks]
[Ji-yeong] "On my conscience, I do
solemnly swear I will make this statement
without concealment,
speaking nothing but the truth,
and that any false statement
is punishable by the law as perjury."
-[button clicks]
-Please, attorney, begin questioning.
[indistinct muttering]
[problematic music playing]
[deep breath, clears throat]
Do you remember when you found out
the acquisition project
that SB Life, a German insurance firm,
had toward Mir Life?
Last year, approximately.
Last year, you took a lot
of sick leave as well, apparently,
and you left early three days
per week over several months.
Please explain why.
Because of the outpatient care I had.
That happened only last year.
I spent about eight years in that company,
and I never took
so much time off as I did last year.
What is the name of the hospital
where you received outpatient care?
Huimang Women's Hospital.
Huimang Women's Hospital
is a maternity hospital
for fertility treatments, correct?
Yes.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[keyboards clacking]
During the first month of IVF,
patients have to go to the hospital
three times a week
to receive outpatient care.
If they are working, they must take
sick leave and adjust their hours.
Especially when mature eggs are collected
or when the embryos are transferred,
since the patient
must rest for a full day.
So, Mrs. Lee, did you have
to take so much time off last year
for IVF-related appointments
as part of your fertility treatment?
Yes.
[gloomy music playing]
Would you have been able
to focus on your treatment
had you seized the opportunity
to resign on your own?
Would that have been a good option
and made your pregnancy easier?
-[keyboards clacking]
-[chatter]
This has nothing to do with my work.
[voice breaks]
I didn't manage to get pregnant.
But even if I would,
I would've decided to keep working.
Under the Labor Standard Act,
female employees
have 90 days of maternity leave
to be used before and after giving birth.
In our previous hearing,
your attorney said
that witness Choi Yeon-hui
had received one month of paid time off
and that this was quite
a shocking benefit coming from a company
that is supposedly going
through difficult times.
Are you just as shocked about maternity
leaves since it's also paid time off?
[Jae-sook] Objection, Your Honor.
My client received IVF long before
she was forced into resignation
which is what this trial is about.
Ji-yeong Lee's resignation
and treatment are completely unrelated.
[serious music playing]
[button clicks]
Mm…
Overruled.
[Judge Ryu] Keep questioning.
Proceed with the witness.
Question. And I remind you,
you're under oath.
Would you agree that it would
be better for you to resign
and receive a compensation
while focusing on your pregnancy
instead of continuing to work
for a company that's downsizing?
[crowd clamoring]
[uncomfortable exhale]
Hello there.
My name is Woo Young-woo.
Whether it's read straight or flipped,
it's still Woo Young-woo.
Kayak, deed, rotator,
noon, racecar, Woo Young-woo.
My name is Ryu Jae-sook. Nice to meet you.
When you flip it, it's Sook-jae Ryu.
[chuckles]
Hmm. All right.
So you're the famous attorney.
I read articles about you.
[Jae-sook] "The first
autistic attorney in Korea."
Ah! You had me wondering
about what type of attorney you would be.
Now I know
Hanbada's got their hooks on you.
I thought maybe you would
have ended up working for the good guys.
Could you define "good guys"?
Yes. As an example, Ryu Jae-sook,
a much better law office for you.
Hmm?
Isn't it better to defend
brave female employees
than a ruthless company who is
so anti-women like Mir Life is, Attorney?
[uncomfortable hum]
Bottom line, we protect
and defend our clients.
Our clients need us
to protect their rights.
Our job is to do our best as attorneys
and try to avoid
potential loss for our clients.
An attorney's job is not to determine
if his client is a good guy or not.
But we have to side with them as they are.
How about the fact
that attorneys are humans too?
Because we're not judges, prosecutors.
-What?
-Each has a role in the courtroom.
Prosecutors and judges
are here to protect the law.
But attorneys have a different role.
[Jae-sook] We're here
to protect the people.
A case is simply work for a judge
and the prosecutor too, but not for us.
And as you know,
we need to stand by our client.
They need protection
and they have chosen us.
And we're human beings
and we give them support.
"Your attorney's on your side."
And they need to hear us say that.
We hold our client's hand.
It's also part of our job.
We're able to do that
because every time we ask ourselves
if we should defend
this client, if it's right,
if we're being loyal to our values.
To each our own,
just don't deceive yourself.
Oh!
Atty. Woo, she is talking to Atty. Ryu.
[mysterious music playing]
What are they discussing, I wonder?
[tongue clicks]
No idea.
[sneaky music playing]
[Min-woo] Hmm!
[door closes]
-[Su-yeon] What are you doing?
-Hmm? What?
Young-woo's away.
You can't go in there.
Why are you at her door?
And what if I had a question
for Attorney Woo?
Wait, who are you?
The Kayak Deed's bodyguard?
Why does this have to do with you?
Young-woo and Jun-ho left a while ago.
It's obvious she's gone.
Her lights are off.
Where could she go
with Jun-ho at this hour?
Oh, Jun-ho and you
are roommates, but he didn't tell you?
-What do you think?
-Think about what?
They've been seeing each other.
Um, they've been what?
-Why?
-Wait, why? What do you mean why?
They just are! Come on!
[scoffs]
You and your crappy instincts.
-I'm--
-[Su-yeon] Get lost.
-[heels clacking in distance]
-[singing softly]
[ominous music playing]
[switch beeps]
LEGAL CONSULTATION STATEMENT
[rustles]
LAW OFFICE OF RYU JAE-SOOK
ATTORNEY WOO YOUNG-WOO
[switch clicks]
[insects chirping]
What's wrong? What are you looking for?
I'm looking for my father.
What?
My father told me he saw us
the other night, kissing, you know?
What?
[harp music playing]
He told me he wants me to bring you over.
There's no way I'm going to do that.
The reason is that you and I
are not together yet.
Uh…
You and I are together.
Are we not?
Hmm…
We never talked about it, right?
Oh…
Oh, or did we?
[Young-woo] Anyway…
So you, you think we're together now?
If I didn't think we were,
then why would I agree to protest
for the dolphins on my weekend?
Huh?
Uh, isn't it a worthy cause?
They have the right to be free.
Uh, of course, they do, 100%.
It's just not something…
It's not common.
I don't know anyone who would do that.
It's not fun to carry signs, you know.
It's not fun?
I mean, really?
Hang on…
[sighs, chuckles]
Quite frankly, that best of list
you made with those things to do.
The date things to do. Right!
[Jun-ho] Yeah.
I honestly think they're…
unusual.
People that go on a date
don't do those activities, you know.
Like picking up trash while running.
That's not a date.
[pleasant music playing]
[Young-woo] Hey, Jun-ho!
Hey…
[Jun-ho] That day,
you were extremely thorough.
You picked up
every piece of trash you saw.
Like all day long.
You just wouldn't stop picking up trash
until your huge basket
got absolutely full.
[exhales]
This is not a date activity at all.
Do you know people who do that?
Uh, you and I went on dates at restaurants
and we ordered the best food!
Gimbap, that's the food we ordered.
We ate gimbap the entire day.
But on the list, there were also things
that you were excited about.
For instance, we went to the arcade
because you were excited about it.
There was a lot of noise,
but I put up with it.
That's right. However, we spent
three hours playing "Spot the Difference".
[upbeat music playing]
Yikes!
Clear!
Ready? Action!
[chiming]
Clear!
Ready? Action!
[clinking]
Clear!
Ready? Action!
Atty. Woo. Whoa!
You're doing so good at this.
Clear!
And you were so good at that game.
That, for me, that wasn't fun.
Oh, so…
So why… why go on dates
that are not fun with me,
if you don't like that?
Just 'cause I like you!
[Jun-ho] I did the dolphins protest,
picked up trash while running,
went to those restaurants
and ordered gimbap because I like you.
And now, you say we're not even…
[deep breath]
…officially together.
Look at us, come on!
That hurts. It hurts me, do you know that?
Ah…
[Jun-ho sighs deeply]
[Judge Ryu] Plaintiff's attorney,
did you submit new evidence?
[Jae-sook] I did, Your Honor.
It proves that Mir Life
carefully carried out
gender discrimination against women.
Their plan was to downsize their workforce
by laying off only their female employees.
Thanks to an anonymous informant,
I have a document in my possession.
[indistinct chatter]
[envelope rustles]
[suspenseful music playing]
[dramatic music playing]
I hereby submit the notebook
of Moon Jong-cheol,
who is Mir Life's HR manager, Your Honor.
[Jae-sook] I scanned the relevant pages
and submitted copies earlier today.
Uh, could that actually be your notebook?
Each employee received a notebook
like this one last year.
And mine should be in my desk drawer.
[remote beeps]
[Jae-sook] As we go
through Mr. Moon's notebook,
we quickly see that Mr. Moon
loves taking notes as he's making calls.
These notes right here
were taken during a phone call
with Mir Life's CEO, Choi Seung-cheol.
We can see that CEO Choi Seung-cheol
gave clear instructions to Mr. Moon
to push the wives to resign
on their own by warning them
that otherwise
their husbands would be penalized.
-[man 1] What?
-[man 2] Seriously, she's good.
[man 3] He really said that?
-[man 4] Wow!
-[woman] She's got amazing evidence.
[whispers]
[Judge Ryu] Mr. Moon, can you confirm?
Does this notebook belong to you?
I can confirm this notebook is mine.
However, how did my notebook
end up in Atty. Ryu's hands--
-I don't know--
-Your Honor, please.
Mr. Moon never agreed to have his notebook
submitted as evidence
by the opposing counsel in the trial.
And as a result, it's obvious
this was illegally obtained.
And, uh, in
Criminal Procedure Act, Article 300…
[Myeong-seok] Three…
Three hun… uh…
Come on, um,
Article 300 in Criminal Procedure…
[deep breath]
Help me out.
You know that.
The stuff about illegally
obtained evidence, remember?
Ah!
Under Criminal Procedure Part 386,
"If the process of obtaining evidence
is considered illegal,
such evidence shall be rejected."
Yes, that! And based
on the article we just mentioned,
Mr. Moon's notes
shall not be admitted as valid evidence.
Your Honor, please reject these notes.
[crowd clamoring]
Mm…
Uh, this Article is valid
for Criminal Procedure,
and this is a trial
in front of a civil court.
However, this Article
is only for Criminal Procedure,
and this trial
is in front of a civil court.
So accepting this evidence
should be up to the court,
in accordance with its freedom
to evaluate evidence.
Judge Ryu, sir, I am very much
looking forward to your wise judgment.
[serious music playing]
ATTORNEY RYU JAE-SOOK
[clears throat]
This notebook was sent to you
by an anonymous informant?
That is correct, Your Honor.
As a result, while the acquisition
of this evidence may subvert the law,
this level of violation
is not significant enough
to reject the notebook's contents.
The court accepts this evidence.
[cheering and clapping]
[victorious music playing]
It's okay. Don't worry.
[grunts]
[suspenseful music playing]
[upbeat music playing]
HEAD OF HR
MOON JONG-CHEOL
[gasps]
[Ji-yeong] We're all supposed
to be a big family!
Are all female employees
also part of this family?
They break the law! They're just liars!
[all in unison]
They're just liars! They're just liars!
We're here at Mir Life
where a protest against downsizing
based on gender discrimination
against women is currently taking place.
[reporter] Many of the protesters
are married couples
working at the company.
NGOs for women's rights
and labor unions are also present.
Two women who got laid off by Mir Life
have filed a wrongful termination suit.
Today's protesters declared
that they intend to submit
a written statement to the court.
Stay tuned for more coverage
on whether or not
this protest will affect the ruling.
[button clicks]
[Judge Ryu]
The court will now read its verdict.
[nervous muttering]
[exhales]
"This court has decided
to dismiss all the plaintiff's claims.
All litigation costs
are to be paid by the plaintiffs."
[crowd chattering in disbelief]
"This court acknowledges
that the defendant
tried to convince
its married female employees to resign
several times by informing them
that their husband
would otherwise suffer
either termination or unpaid leave."
-[sighs]
-"Nonetheless, designating one employee
within a married couple of employees
in a context of workforce reduction
is reasonable
from a socioeconomic perspective,
due to the fact that the policy
specified it would affect one employee
within a married couple of employees
rather than the wife only,
this policy does not undermine
gender equality
and is not discriminating,
according to the Constitution
and Labor Laws in place.
In addition, the plaintiffs submitted
their respective resignation letters
after having been offered
to retire on a voluntary basis
as the defendant suggested,
and after taking into account
the circumstances
and conditions of resigning
and continuing to work for the company.
Therefore, this process
is considered reasonable."
[chuckles]
Oh, no.
[touching music playing]
[Myeong-seok] Uh, Mr. Moon.
How come you don't seem
to be thrilled? Is everything all right?
The court ruled in our favor.
But is this ruling in my favor?
I don't think so, Atty. Jung.
-I'm not Mir Life.
-Sorry?
Well, it sounds like…
the board is getting rid of me next.
-[Jong-cheol] Didn't they tell you?
-I had no idea.
Ah, I see.
I was wondering if Hanbada
had advised them on that one too.
"Here's how to fire your HR manager
with zero trouble." Pretty good.
I'm sorry, I hadn't the faintest idea.
Well, their official reason
is that the downsizing process
ended up being a failure.
The protest, the press,
due to the lawsuit,
things really got out of control.
[Jong-cheol]
But now that I think about it,
I kind of think
it was all planned out since day one.
SB Life picked the next HR manager.
I guess that was predictable.
[sighs]
You've been through a lot.
You must be exhausted.
I bet you're hurt as well.
[exhales]
I'll get through.
I've laid off almost 100 employees.
I guess I deserve hardship as well.
You'll reap what you sow.
[soft chuckle]
[women clapping, cheering]
Despite this verdict from the court,
this lawsuit has made us stronger.
And I believe it had an impact.
That's right! Keep shouting
until they stop discriminating!
We fought well, even though we lost!
It really is amazing this went to trial!
We will win if we fight together!
[cheering]
Rest assured, these rights, equal rights
can still be defended in court.
We intend to appeal today's ruling
and we'll never stop fighting
for all workers and for gender equality!
[all agreeing]
[all in unison]
Equal rights! Equal rights!
Equal rights! Equal rights! Equal rights!
To be honest, it's amazing
that they want to celebrate
even though the verdict
wasn't in their favor.
And we're kind of weird as well
to be going there
just because they invited us, right?
We were against them, after all.
I'm excited to find out
what it will be like.
Would you be interested
in lawsuits like that?
I mean, Atty. Ryu taking on cases
about workers, women, human rights?
Hmm…
Um, I… I don't know.
Atty. Ryu is like…
the Yangtze River dolphin, actually.
Ugh, the Yangtze River dolphin again.
It's been way too long.
The Yangtze River dolphin is awesome.
Wanna know why?
Can you please not tell me?
[suspenseful music playing]
Come on.
[moans]
Dolphins usually live in the oceans,
but some species
can adapt to rivers, actually.
A perfect example
is the Yangtze River dolphin.
It lived in fresh waters in China.
Guess where! In the Yangtze River!
And in 2007, it went functionally extinct.
And what do Atty. Ryu
and the Yangtze River dolphin
have in common, then, huh?
Atty. Ryu couldn't work
in a law firm like Hanbada.
She would never adapt
to the environment with the way she is.
But I hope she doesn't go extinct.
[gentle music playing]
LAW OFFICE OF RYU JAE-SOOK
SEXUALLY DISCRIMINATORY RESTRUCTURING
THERE SHOULDN'T BE RESTRUCTURING!
[groans]
You're doing it again.
Leave it alone, Atty. Woo.
It's hard for me,
you know, to stop doing it.
[sighs]
I'M ROOTING FOR YOU, ATTORNEY RYU
MEANINGFUL LOSS!
[Su-yeon] I wonder how it feels
to get the support of the people.
Even though she just lost in court.
Mm-hmm.
So do I.
DON'T BE DISCOURAGED!
LET'S OVERCOME! LET'S FIGHT TOGETHER!
[Jae-sook] Oh, here you are.
We're all on the rooftop.
Let's go together.
Great.
Ah!
I'm sorry, Su-yeon, could you go ahead?
I have something
I'd like to give Atty. Woo.
Yeah, sure.
[heels clacking]
[envelope rustles]
Here you go.
I wanted to return this to you.
LEGAL CONSULTATION STATEMENT
[gasps]
How did you… did you
even manage to get this document?
Wait, you didn't send this
to my office, during the trial?
No, of course not!
Hmm…
I found your business card
in the envelope.
I was under the impression
you mailed that document to me in secret.
HANBADA LAW FIRM
ATTORNEY WOO YOUNG-WOO
[Jae-sook] Looks like Hanbada
has some workplace issues of its own.
Atty. Woo, listen. Just be careful.
Someone sent that.
Whoa! So, um, you had
this document all along
but you didn't use it
as evidence in the case.
That could have been real trouble
for you, if I shared that in court.
I had a few tricks up my sleeve
to get what I needed, you know.
[chuckles]
Mm-hmm.
Come on.
[Ji-yeong] Come over here. Have a seat!
[bright music playing]
[Hyeon-jeong] We just made bibimbap.
With the super-fresh veggies
that Atty. Ryu grows up here.
Right? I'm a farmer as a side gig.
A rooftop farmer.
Actually, I may be
a better farmer than attorney.
[cackling]
You only have bibimbap? What about gimbap?
In bibimbap,
all the ingredients are mixed up,
so I may be surprised
by some textures or flavors I don't like.
What's that?
Gimbap? What for?
What do you mean "surprised"?
[Su-yeon laughs awkwardly]
Then don't mix the ingredients together.
Just have them separately.
Ungh…
Atty. Woo, eat what they serve.
Mm.
Oh, that bibimbap looks amazing.
We should have come earlier
to help you make it.
We spent the day unwinding, relaxing,
taking our time while cooking too.
-[Jae-sook] And reading poems as well.
-"Reading poems"?
As a coincidence,
all three of us love poetry.
I read two poems. One by the Kim Su-young
and one by Ko Jung-hee,
my favorite writers!
Attorney, it's your turn to read, huh?
Is now a good time
for poem reading, you think?
How about this appeal you have to file?
-Ah!
-That's not important.
[all cackling]
You're so right.
That's why Hanbada's attorneys
are different, right?
And I'm gonna lose again.
[all cackling]
Hey, it's okay to have fun today.
It's our after-party.
I am so looking forward
to finding out what Atty. Ryu
is gonna read for us today.
Yeah, I'm so excited.
Come on, share your poem with us.
-Ryu Jae-sook!
-Let me see here.
-Ryu Jae-sook! Ryu Jae-sook!
[all whooping, clapping]
So much has been written
And so much has been said
About life
At the end of our days
The goal is to have delivered my woodchips
To be burned for someone other than myself
When frost is on the floor
We have long hours
Until the first sign of spring arrives
When all over town
Beautiful flowers spring to life
Across our country of Korea
Our lives are like a truck
Pulling itself up a hill
Carrying our woodchips
It knows inherently
What it was supposed to do
Woodchips can burn forever
When they are on fire for someone
But for many of my days
I was oblivious to that
I kept them from my ball of warm rice
And my daily soup, I had yet
To learn to give them to others
I only thought of useless ashes
And I had yet to love
With my entire being
[dolphin moans]
I hadn't turned into woodchips
For anyone, now I see what life really is
Going from my piece
To a thousand pieces for others
I would never have imagined
Ascending to these heights
For others to find warmth
When the streets are still icy
From the early morning snow
[all clapping, whooping]
-[Su-yeon] Wow.
-[Jae-sook] Go ahead, eat.
[tranquil music playing]
[Ji-yeong] Thanks for the food!
-That was amazing!
-[Jae-sook] Bon appétit.
-[elevator dings]
-[doors open]
[ominous music playing]
[eerie music playing]
[clicks]
[elevator dings]
[doors open]
[tense music playing]
[blows air]
Oh, shit.
[door opens]
[haunting footsteps]
Shit!
[door closes]
[phone vibrates]
Uh, yes, Boss?
Well, I got off on the wrong floor.
Yeah, yeah, I remembered
to bring that as well.
Yeah, I'm headed back up now.
[door locks]
-Oh, shit.
-[staff clicks]
[panting]
[phone vibrates]
[Seon-yeong] Atty. Jung,
Jang Jae-jin has been arrested.
The police have found him
hiding way down south in Changwon.
So you have nothing to fear anymore.
[coughs]
[liquid sloshes]
[clears throat, gasps]
What the…
[gloomy music playing]
[chuckles]
[coughing continues]
[deep exhale]
[chuckles]
[groans]
[floaty music playing]
Is there really a law that says people
who didn't visit a cultural heritage
must still pay admission?
Could I go on a business trip, please?
-Uh, where to?
-Jeju!
[Myeong-seok] Since I'm taking
a lot of rookies with me,
I'll make sure we do our best.
Doesn't it seem like it's an excuse to go
on vacation rather than a business trip?
[Myeong-seok] They're closed.
[Min-woo] Looks like
it's been closed for a while.
[Abbot] Don't let yourself be fooled
by your current perception.
That will mislead you.
Focus only on what's quintessential.
[Seung-hui] You should be bringing home
a girl who can make you happy,
not someone you have to take care of.